Welcome to the next lesson
in our discussion of the Java
Streams framework
where we'll start
with an overview of the
SimpleSearchStream Program.
We use this program to showcase
key Java sequential streams'
capabilities throughout
this week's lessons.
This program is fairly
straightforward.
But it illustrates some key
ideas and key capabilities
in streams.
At its essence, we use it to
find words in an input string.
In this particular
case, the input string
will contain the contents
of the "do, re, mi"
song from The Sound
of Music movie.
And if you ever
familiar with that song,
you know that they talk about
giving names to musical notes.
So the words we're
going to be looking up
are the names of
the musical notes--
do, re, mi, and so
on and so forth.
This will illustrate
how we can combine
Java functional
programming features we've
covered in previous courses,
such as lambda expressions
and method references, together
with Java sequential stream
features, such as the
concept of factory
methods, intermediate
operations, and terminal
operations.
The program produces
nicely formatted output.
And what it basically does
is for every input word we're
looking to find in the input
string, which in this case
is the names of
the musical notes,
it will say for each
word all the locations
that that word appeared in the
input string, all the indices
or the locations in the string
where the word appeared.
So for each word,
we'll get a list
of all the locations in
terms of their index number
where the word
appeared in the string.
And you can see if you look
closely at the output screen
there, you can see how it shows
all the indices in that string.
We also do a couple
other things.
We also have some
other features that
will be used to print a
slice of the search results
starting at a particular word.
So what we might do there is we
might say, starting with "fa,"
I want to print everything
in all the indices from "fa"
and beyond.
So this is just a way of
being able to demonstrate
some other interesting
features in streams,
such as the dropWhile
intermediate operation, so just
a different way of doing things.
So we'll start our discussion
by looking at the entry point
into the
SimpleSearchStream Program.
And this entry point, of course,
is just the main program,
the main function, that
will be used to drive
all the other processing.
And you can find
this main function
at the URL available at
the bottom of the slide
in the main.java file.
The first thing we do is
we call the getInput method
on a TestDataFactory
class, which
will create an input string that
contains the lyrics to the "do,
re, mi" song.
So if you look carefully
at this-- and we'll
look at the
implementations later.
But if you look
carefully at this,
you can see that we're going
to go to some input file.
And we're going
to get the input.
And it's going to
come back as a string.
And so we'll look at that
in a bit more detail later.
Then what we do is we
open up another file using
another factory method in
the TestDataFactory class.
And this is going to be used
to return a list of strings
containing the words we want
to find, which in our case
would be the strings, "do,
re, mi, fa, so," and so on.
We then go ahead and make a new
WordSearcher object giving it
the input string.
So the WordSearcher's going
to take the input string
and then create a
WordSearcher object that
will search that string and
be used to find the words
we want to find.
And then we go ahead
and we say, searcher,
please find all the
words that correspond
to the wordToFind list.
And that will then return
a list of search results.
And we'll talk more about
what search results are later.
A search result is
basically a data structure
that keeps track of
where, if anywhere,
the words were found in
the input string, what
locations they were
found at in terms
of the indices of the string.
And then for this particular
example, when we're all done,
we're simply going to
print all the results.
So that will print all
the matching words.
We'll take a look later at
some other examples that
will print slices of the words,
either prefixes or suffix
slices of the words.